---
layout: page
subheadline:  "Data Transfers"
title:  "ACTION REQUIRED: Retirement of JASMIN Gridftp server"
teaser: "Use of Gridftp for data transfer in UM Workflows is being replaced with Globus.  All users, currently using Gridftp, must modify their suites to use Globus for data transfer between ARCHER2 and JASMIN."
categories:
    - news
tags:
    - news
    - archer2
    - jasmin
author: ros
#header: no
---

JASMIN will be retiring the Gridftp server (`gridftp1.jasmin.ac.uk`) on 13 December 2024.  Globus will then become the recommended way for transferring data between ARCHER2 and JASMIN within Rose/Cylc workflows.  All users are asked to register for Globus and change their suites to use Globus for data transfer from ARCHER2 to JASMIN as soon as possible.

Globus can also be used for one-off data transfers.  Please see the [JASMIN webpages](https://help.jasmin.ac.uk/docs/data-transfer/globus-transfers-with-jasmin/) & [Globus documentation](https://docs.globus.org/) for information on how to do this.

## Instructions for updating UM Workflows

### 1. Register for Globus Online:

* Register for Globus and follow the setup instructions at [Setting up Globus for PPTransfer]({{ '/unified-model/pptransfer-globus' | relative_url }}) (If you have an NCAS google account, you can register using that)

### 2. Suite Changes: 

* In panel `fcm_make_pp -> configuration` check you are using one of the following 2 postproc branches: 
  * `postproc_2.3_archer2_jasmin_rewrite` 
  * `postproc_2.4_archer2_jasmin_rewrite`  
  
  If you are not using either of these branches please contact CMS Support for advice by raising a ticket on the [CMS Helpdesk](https://cms-helpdesk.ncas.ac.uk/).

* In panel *fcm_make_pp -> configuration*:
  Make sure `config_rev` is blank and that no revision number is specified for the `postproc_2.X_archer2_jasmin_rewrite` branch in `pp_sources`.

  **Note:** Your suite may be setup to use optional configuration overrides, if so, you will need to look in `app/postproc/opt/rose-app-archer2.conf` instead.
    
* In `app/postproc/rose-app.conf` add the following variables to the [namelist:pptransfer] section and set `gridftp=false`:
  ```
  globus_cli=true
  globus_default_colls=true
  globus_notify='off'
  ```

* Optionally at the top of the file, change the meta line so that you can see the options in the rose edit gui:
  ```
  meta=/home/n02/n02/ros/meta/postproc_2.X_archer2_jasmin_rewrite/rose-meta/archive_and_meaning/postproc/pp2X_globus
  ```
  Where both `X`s in the above should be replaced with either `3` or `4` depending on the version of postproc you are using.

### 3. Updating a Running Suite:

* Reload the suite: `rose suite-run --reload`
* Hold the whole suite, or just the next postproc task
* In the Cylc GUI: Control -> Insert Task(s)...
* Set` TASK-NAME.CYCLE-POINT=fcm_make_pp.<YYYYMMDDT0000Z>`, where `<YYYYMMDDT0000Z>` is an active cycle point
* Leave `stop-point=POINT` blank
* Check the "Do not check if a cycle point is valid or not" box
* Insert, and wait for the task to complete.
* If nothing happens: You probably typed something incorrectly! Try again.
* In the Cylc GUI: Control --> Insert Task(s)…
* Set `TASK-NAME.CYCLE-POINT=fcm_make2_pp<YYYYMMDDT0000Z>`, where `<YYYYMMDDT0000Z>` is an active cycle point
* Leave `stop-point=POINT` blank
* Check the "Do not check if a cycle point is valid or not" box
* Insert, and wait for the task to complete.
* Release the held suite/postproc task

{% comment %} Leave below here {% endcomment %}
## All News Items
{: .t60 }

{% include list-posts tag='news' %}
